Re-written Introduction (#61)
thomas-fossati/draft-tls13-iot: draft-ietf-uta-tls13-iot-profile.md

# Introduction

In the rapidly evolving Internet of Things (IoT) ecosystem, securing device-to-device communication is a critical requirement. The Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) protocols have been foundational for ensuring encryption, integrity, and authenticity in network communications. However, the inherent constraints of IoT devices, such as limited processing capacity, memory, and energy, render conventional, off-the-shelf TLS/DTLS implementations suboptimal for many IoT use cases. This document, TLS/DTLS 1.3 Profiles for the Internet of Things (IoT), addresses these limitations by specifying profiles of TLS 1.3 and DTLS 1.3, optimized for the operational constraints of resource-constrained IoT systems.

> These profiles aim to balance strong security with the hardware and software limitations of IoT devices. TLS/DTLS 1.3 introduces numerous enhancements over previous versions, including reduced handshake overhead, more efficient encryption schemes, and mechanisms to thwart replay and downgrade attacks. However, the default configurations may still present excessive computational and memory demands for constrained devices with limited CPU, RAM, and power resources. The document mitigates these challenges by defining lightweight protocol configurations while maintaining the essential security guarantees of TLS/DTLS. This specification extends the TLS/DTLS 1.2 profiles for IoT defined in {{!RFC7925}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These profiles aim to balance strong security with the hardware and software limitations of IoT devices. TLS/DTLS 1.3 introduces numerous enhancements over previous versions, including reduced handshake overhead, more efficient encryption schemes, and mechanisms to thwart replay and downgrade attacks. However, the default configurations may still present excessive computational and memory demands for constrained devices with limited CPU, RAM, and power resources. The document mitigates these challenges by defining lightweight protocol configurations while maintaining the essential security guarantees of TLS/DTLS. This specification also updates {{!RFC7925}} with regards to the X.509 certificate profile.
```

> These profiles aim to balance strong security with the hardware and software limitations of IoT devices. TLS/DTLS 1.3 introduces numerous enhancements over previous versions, including reduced handshake overhead, more efficient encryption schemes, and mechanisms to thwart replay and downgrade attacks. However, the default configurations may still present excessive computational and memory demands for constrained devices with limited CPU, RAM, and power resources. The document mitigates these challenges by defining lightweight protocol configurations while maintaining the essential security guarantees of TLS/DTLS. This specification also updates {{!RFC7925}} with regards to the X.509 certificate profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These profiles aim to balance strong security with the hardware and software limitations of IoT devices. TLS/DTLS 1.3 introduces numerous enhancements over previous versions, including reduced handshake overhead, more efficient encryption schemes, and mechanisms to thwart replay and downgrade attacks. However, the default configurations may still present excessive computational and memory demands for constrained devices with limited CPU, RAM, and power resources. The document mitigates these challenges by defining lightweight protocol configurations while maintaining the essential security guarantees of TLS/DTLS. This specification also updates {{!RFC7925}} with regards to the X.509 certificate profile ({{certificate_profile}}) and ciphersuites requirements ({{ciphersuites}}).
```
